---
published: false
---
Education provides us with an appreciation of the world around us and turns it into a better world. Through Education, a perspective of looking at life grows in us. It allows us to develop opinions on topics in life and to have different viewpoints. People are debating whether education is the only thing that provides knowledge. Many claim the process of acquiring information about the surrounding environment is education and Knowledge is something very different from that. They are correct in their viewpoint but without education, information cannot be translated into knowledge. A good Education helps in building a strong foundation, upon which a person can develop his own life, in his own way.

The Education system in India is struggling from and has not seen any reform, which is much required need of the hour. India is no where among the best education systems in the world because of its rote system that focuses on theories more than practical. This methodology of teaching kills the creativity in a student and also makes the process of learning a lot harder. There are only a few opportunities for professional degree courses in India, with medical, engineering and CA at top of the list. You're going to be demeaned if you're not one of them. Whereas a doctor gets the same respect overseas as a singer does. There is also a respectable career choice for music, art and sports. Hence there is a need of transformation in the system design.

Education also plays a very important role in career building, as with right education and skill one can excel in the career of his/her own choice. Without proper education, these choices are highly narrowed down, with a few options remaining that are looked down by the Indian society. For career development and success as well, education is crucial. The person that is well trained can definitely understand the various aspects and factors related to a job better than those that are not, and the educated person will change the processes to produce better outcomes that will lead to success. Hence, we as a group tried to teach the students about the various aspects related to career and education. 

Over the past month, we had the opportunity to conduct four very interesting sessions with the school students. In our previous post, we discussed details about the class, the need and our goals for the intervention. Since then, with each session we took steps towards our overall goal of inculcating a self-driven habit of holistically looking at their future career aspirations and planning on how to achieve them in the students. In this concluding post, we would like to showcase what we experienced, some challenges we faced and what we took from this.

We adopted an activity-based pedagogy for teaching concepts to the students. We had the core session objective at the centre, around which an activity was developed. Each activity was embellished with gamification elements to make the learnings more enjoyable and concrete. Gamification 's increasing success stems from the assumption that it can promote inspiration, behavioural improvements, friendly rivalry and collaboration and we observed the similar, in our sessions also. 

After our intervention, we used to have a small discussion with the children on what they were learning from the courses. Some of these learnings were eye-opening for us as well, as it led us to think about our own education. We understood that correcting such changes would actually need effort from the administration level as well. 

The following are some of the learnings from our intervention – 


